[MUSIC]
>> Bianca: So we have a couple dos and
don'ts for our dot notation,
what's this gonna return?
Again, the green,
these green question marks
mean that I want someone,
I want a victim to answer.
>> Bianca: Don't yell at all,
all out at once.
Undefined.
Yeah, here we go.
Great.
>> Bianca: What about this one?
>> Student: I gave you.
>> Bianca: What is it?
>> Student: I gave you
>> Bianca: Material?
>> Student: [INAUDIBLE] no,
[INAUDIBLE] different.
>> Bianca: Yeah, undefined,
why is this one undefined?
>> Student: Because the [INAUDIBLE]
string, and keeping value,
so key value is, they us the key value.
>> Bianca: Absolutely, so the reason this
is undefined is because the dot notation
is equivalent to using the bracket
notation with the quotes.
So the first two lines
are looking up the same thing.
They're looking up a property called key
on the object box which doesn't exist,
it's undefined
>> Student 2: So
if you wanted cardboard, you would
do the brackets without the quotes,
key without the quotes and
the bracket notation.
>> Bianca: Absolutely.
>> Bianca: Where's my thing?
So what's this one?
>> Student 3: Cardboard.
>> Bianca: Cardboard.
>> Student 3: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca: Very good.
Cool.
>> Bianca: So here's some dos and don'ts.
Don't use dot notation with a variable.
Don't use quotations around your variable,
it's gonna give you
some undesired results.
Yeah, if you have a variable,
just put it in there without the quotes.
So what about some non valid
characters and numbers and things?
So, with dot notation,
you have to use valid variable names.
What I mean valid variable names, I don't
mean a variable name, I mean something
not, if you type it up in your console
here that, can everyone see this?
If I said like var 0 = 'asdf'',
that won't work cuz numbers
aren't valid variable names.
So that means that for.
Not for our object.
If we said box.0 equals something,
that's also not gonna work.
So if you can't say var whatever
it is the that's considered it
invalid variable name and
you cannot use it with dot notation, so
some things other than numbers that
are invalid are just weird characters.
And the way that we get around this if you
have to use them is by using the bracket
notation with quotation marks.
Unless it's a number, in which case,
quotation marks are optional.
But for example, here,
we have this really semantic name
here, upper carat, ampersand, star.
I name most of my properties like this for
readability purposes.
>> Student 3: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca: And so that's how we deal with
non valid characters,
numbers, things like that.
And then also if we want to access them,
it's the same way,
we have to keep those quotations
around it with the bracket notation.
Cool, and here's a picture of what
our object kind of looks like.
And notice that our numbers,
even though we pass it in as a number,
it's actually stored as a string.
Under the hood, whenever you use bracket
notation, it's actually string of fine.
Once it's evaluate the expression,
it's gonna stringify those
values even if it's a number.
Even if it's array or a function as well
because those are objects under the hood.
>> Student 2: Are single quotes equivalent
to double quotes and all these places.
>> Bianca: Yes, yeah.
Quotations are super flexible
as long as they match.
>> Bianca: [COUGH] So
here are the rules, kinda laid out.
So, as we can see, bracket notations
a lot more powerful than dot notation,
dot notation, you can really only put
strings in there, and remember those
strings have to be valid variable names,
which means they can't be numbers, they
can't have weird characters, they can't
be expressions like math or a function.
You can't put quotations around it.
For brackets you can do pretty much
anything, somethings do need quotes.
I have a little key here,
so if it has this key here,
that means it requires quotes.
So, if you want "string,
it has to have quotes.
If you want to do anything with
a "weird character, you need,
you require, excuse me.
You require the quotes as well and
then variables, numbers, and
expressions without the quotation marks.
>> Bianca: Cool?
Mm-hm.
>> Student 2: If you pass in
a function in the brackets,
does it have to return a string?
>> Bianca: It should return a string.
>> Student 2: Okay.
>> Bianca: Whatever
returns is gonna be stringified.
The danger with, I don't know why
you would really, I don't know,
maybe you would put a function.
I've never put a function in bracket
notation, but if you don't call
the function, then it's just gonna
basically it's like stringified functions.
So if you say var x = function
It's just gonna say X.toString,
and then it's gonna do a property
lookup on something that looks like
function with quotation marks.
So make sure that you
actually call your function.
>> Bianca: If you must do that,
but I wouldn't recommend it.
It was more of an example of that
you can do that because it evaluates
expressions and those brackets.
>> Student 2: Does the stringify in
the brackets like if it's a number?
>> Bianca: Mm-hm.
>> Student 2: And so
anything if it's defined.
>> Bianca: Yep.
>> Student 2: Got it.
>> Student 2: Are there any special
string interpolation rules for
single versus double quotes?
Some languages single just single
quotes is just a string of literal-
>> Bianca: No it doesn't matter.
>> Student 2: So you can proper-
>> Bianca: Yeah, it could be anything.
Yeah, it really doesn't matter.
You guys are really in
to the quotations today.
So many quotes.
Cool, all right so those are the rules.
Any questions about these rules and
really important about these rules,
that they don't change.
So I go saying before,
everything in JavaScripts and Objects.
And because they're Objects, these Objects
rules for the syntax stay the same.
So keep that in mind, wherever you see
dot notation, wherever you see bracket
notation, just remember these rules and
they're always gonna be the same.